# Decentralized Finance
 
In a world where we can easily send messages within seconds to another from all across the world, why can't we send money so easily? There's a lot of reasons why it is so difficult with the traditional banking system: having to contend with the troubles of moving money around and the subsequent regulatory challenges involved at the different endpoints. Marcus Swanepoel, CEO of BitX (emerging market Bitcoin company), told a story about how they tried to send $100 from Singapore to Kenya. At some point, it literally got lost. Neither institution knew what happened to it. After some trouble they eventually "found" it. I quote from one of their blog posts (talking about the FALCON protocol) to show just how unreasonably difficult it is:  
  
"Currently, the process of sending small amounts of money is very expensive. It typically involves getting a quote from the sending bank, that works on an exchange rate that allows a generous spread for the bank. An exchange fee is also lobbed on top of the transaction. So if I want to send $100 from Singapore to Kenya, that typically costs me, as the sender ~$130.  
  
A message is then sent to the recipient bank, or to an intermediate corresponding bank. The goal is to send a message along the chain of correspondent banks that each have relationships and accounts with the other banks; and then to offset and settle between these banks, eventually resulting in liability transferred in such a way that the recipient bank can credit the account of the receiver with the $100. Only, each of the intermediate banks, as well as the receiving bank will also charge a somewhat arbitrary fee. This easily results in another $25 being subtracted from the the amount received, leaving the receiver with only $75 worth of Kenya Shillings.

That is bad enough with sending something as commonly traded as USD. But if you are sending SGD for example, the transaction might just never complete due to a lack of appetite for Singapore Dollars in Kenya or at any of the intermediary banks. In this case the sender will eventually (days later) receive his $100 back in his account, but he will typically not be refunded the fees. During this time neither the sender or the receiver will have any visibility into what is happening with the transaction.  
  
Note: this is not a hypothetical example - it has actually happened to us as a business, and continues to happen at a large scale for many businesses, especially SME’s, across a number of markets.  
  
The fees are used to facilitate the transfer between correspondent banks. Banks need to take on some risk from other banks. They will have accounts at a number of other banks, spreading their liability and risk, while growing a network to facilitate a mechanism whereby transactions are offset between themselves by adjusting correspondent bank accounts."  

## Remittance
  
Bitcoin is a "cryptocurrency". Using a blockchain has a lot of value in terms using it for decentralized, autonomous and trust-less finance. As you can see with Marcus' example, fees are a big issue, mainly due to the risks involved with processes like this. Some remittance corridors easily take up to 20%. Moving traditional money (dubbed "fiat") across the world means one could simply have one hop, instead of several: through a decentralized consensus ledger. This remittance market totals almost $400 billion a year. There's a short documentary called ["Bitcoin in Uganda"](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrRXP1tp6Kw) that details how Ronald from Kampala uses Bitcoin for remittances. Currently, his sister works in the United States and sends back Bitcoin to Ronald. In Kampala, Ronald finds someone who wants to buy Bitcoin from him, and get Ugandan Shillings back. As you can see it's currently all manual. In Kenya, a company called BitPesa helped automate this process (with the UK): allowing transfer from the pound to Kenyan shillings through M-Pesa (the mobile wallet service). For their service, they add 3% to the spread when buying Bitcoin from them. At some point as adoption increases, a world-wide Bitcoin economy could exist where it isn't required to switch into and from other currencies. It is debatable whether this will happen (Bitcoin will possible be used less and less as a currency and more as a clearing/payments network instead). However, certain novel uses exist when you can send money instantly. When a person buys a beer in Brazil and they get the bill to pay, the QR codewill contain the information to pay the bar. This person's friend is in Germany and sends them a snapshot of the pic, saying: "Hey. Remember that beer you owe me for helping you move 2 months ago? ;)". Within 10 seconds, they scan the QR code with an app in Germany, open a wallet, and the friend pays the bill from across the world. Similarly, I've seen some people use Twitter to post invoices. Amir Taaki, a Bitcoin developer, submitted an invoice to a domain for an open source project. Within a few minutes, someone else paid the bill for him. This gives opportunity for interesting acts of kindness. Submit invoices to an online service and someone can pay them: a friendly gift from a stranger. Alternatively, a service could exist where someone posts their invoice (for say a pizza), and someone could offer to pay it in return that they can send a message to them (advertising or other).  
  
Another blockchain-based system that allows people to send any money to someone else, is called Ripple (Stellar is a fork). Its blockchain uses a different manner to retain consensus than Bitcoin. All that's important is that instead of using an external resource (hashing power), it relies on building a web of trust (WoT). A WoT is an explicit network detailing the people each person trusts. In Ripple, it's a trust network based on who you are willing to hold IOUs with. So, if person A pays person D, and they are connected through person B and C, they can then pay each other in any currency, as long as the debt can properly clear through the chain. It is simply an automated debt-settlement network. As long as someone holds debts in different currencies, it is possible to, for example, pay someone in Euro and that person would automatically receive Dollars (if they don't want Euros). If a trust hop is not possible, then an internal currency is used. If everyone in the world uses Ripple or Stellar, then no one will require the internal currency. Detractors of Ripple and Stellar point to the fact that its distribution relies on creating an initial set of internal currency tokens, as opposed to Bitcoin, which uses its security mechanism for its distribution as well: allowing, decentralized issuance of new tokens.

## P2P Lending

todo
  
## Micropayments

Money that can flow with low barriers to entry, means you can send money for livelihood to friends and family across the world. However, with a system like Bitcoin, the barriers go even lower, allowing micropayments to exist online, which just wasn't feasible before. Micropayments come in different forms with blockchain technology: traditionally "small" payments and "payment channels". I'll start with "payment channels".

A payment channel is a way to open up a channel between service provider and client, in order to send very small payments consistently over a period of time. It's a contract that stipulates that the service provider will continue to give a service as long as the client keeps paying. To explain the protocol in layman's terms, it is sort of like a special cheque whose value constantly changes. When the service starts, the cheque states that if it is cashed, the service provider receives nothing. As service continues, the cheque automatically updates and a larger amount gets paid to the service provider. When the service is done, the service provider can go cash the cheque at the point it stopped. It's actually a bit more complex since there's actually a deposit involved (and it's sort of like a cheque that pays out to both), but I think this explanation covers the basic understanding. What this can do, is that it can create services where you can pay for anything, per the billing rate. You could download a file, and pay per kilobyte (as it is downloading). This would work especially well with wifi setups: you simply roam, connect and pay according to pre-determined agreement for the data you've downloaded. There's no need to set up accounts and so forth. If something goes awry (client isn't paying, or the service provider isn't delivering), then both parties can end the channel. Another term I like to explain "payment channels" is "streaming payments". While it useful in terms of delivering a service in ad-hoc manner, it has additional which makes it particularly useful for machine-to-machine value exchange. I will touch upon this in a later chapter.

The second micropayment is more easier to understand: simply paying someone very small amounts through the internet, like it was a small cash tip. It is feasible to send amounts as low as $0.5 (the lower you go, the larger the fee becomes as a percentage of the transaction). Invariably, this opens up the opportunity to pay for content on-the-go that wasn't possible before. Examples include paying a small amount to read a paywalled article online, or paying a small fee with your browser to not see any ads on the page. Nick Szabo wrote an interesting paper on [micropayments](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/micropayments.html) and the psychology of it. When something is valued really small, the mental costs to determine if the content is worth the small amount becomes worth more than the possible enjoyment from it. So, for example, you encounter an article: "Pay $0.5 to continue reading." Even when it is simply a 1-click barrier away, the person still has to wonder: "Is this worth $0.5?". The mental and transactional costs outweigh any potential value from the article. It remains to be seen if this will pan out. To give a counter-argument to this (from subjective experience). Around 2004/2005, there was a popular J2ME phone chat application amongst our peers in South Africa, called Mxit (long before WhatsApp and others). It was popular because texting was incredibly expensive for a teenager. Unlike later version of chat applications, there wasn't notifications, so you had to spend time inside the app (keep it open). So, when waiting to get a reply from someone, you'd often just check the other parts of the platform. There was in-house currency, called moolah, that you bought via text. With moolah, you could buy skins, gifts, etc. One particularly interesting app inside the ecosystem that relates to micropayments was "News24". You could only see a title, and then you would pay 5c (in Rand value) to read an article (paying with moolah). So, instead of aimlessly looking at the screen, I would go read news articles (paying 5c for each one). Each article was presented in a similar manner, so expectations were managed very well. So, very small micropayments do work if the setup is done properly (very low barrier to entry to transact) and mental costs are low (you know what you are getting). In Bitcoin, what does indeed work well with very small payments is tipping.  
  
Tipping has different mental costs involved. The nominal amount has less to do with determining the "value exchange" (for the person tipping it should just be enough that if it is public, they don't feel ashamed about it). This has proliferated quite extensively. Tipping takes on several forms in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Without any external services, you'd need to get the address of the person you are tipping (people add it at the end of a blog post, for example). However, several wallet services have started creating public 'payment endpoints'. So, if you store your Bitcoin with Coinbase, you can get a URL (eg, http://coinbase.com/simondlr) that allows people to tip said person (if they legitimately claim it is them). This however means that a user needs to have a Coinbase account. Other services such as OneName.io also allow public payment endpoints, but in OneName.io's case they do it in a decentralized manner (you simply register an address, but that combination is stored in another decentralized blockchain called Namecoin). I will touch upon Namecoin in the next chapter. Some time into the future, it won't be farfetched to imagine that everyone with a smartphone will have some public payment endpoint readily available (along with the help of services such as M-Pesa in Kenya and Venmo in the United States). Companies such as ChangeTip allow Bitcoin tipping to bootstrap on top of existing identity platforms such as YouTube, Twitter and Reddit. Bots on these sites take commands from users, and ChangeTip holds the funds and sends them around for the users where it is appropriate. You could for example tip your favourite artist on Twitter with ChangeTip without them having an account. If they sign up, they can claim it. This type of model could have theoretically existed in the traditional banking system. I could deposit some money into a specific banking account, then notify a user that I've tipped them, and then they need to sign up and withdraw that money. However, as you can see, this is way too much effort to 1) work with a global banking system and 2) no one will do this effort for a small tip. Tipping adds a new interesting dynamic for value exchange. Tipping could form part of additional user experiences, because it can fit easily into the flow. For example, a social network can exist where posts are only allowed when the post is a tip as well to someone else (content creator or friend). This automatically creates "spam control" that increases novelty against feeds that are prone to information overload. Additionally, you could "re-tip" to those who discover content, sharing it, and thanking the friend for the interesting content. To give appropriate credit, these are ideas I worked on with Justin Womersley (which is continuing with this with an app called Huzzah) and Richard Oakley. Another interesting example that happened was when Glitch Mob (an electro band) released their new album. A fan pirated it, and then after enjoying it, decided to pay the artist for it. Instead of trying to get a hold of information to send money to them, he simply sent the appropriate value in Dogecoin through Twitter.  
  
## Altcoins
  
As you may have noticed, I have already mentioned two other cryptocurrencies: namely Namecoin and Dogecoin. They are also called altcoins. What's important to realise here is that when users create altcoins, they are creating new blockchains. By defintion, most altcoins (as a version of a blockchain) attempts to also be money. Since the code is open-source, users can fork and with some technical expertise, create a new altcoin. Since a blockchain is governed by certain algorithmic rules that define the protocol, developers have been tweaking and experimenting with it. It brings back the aspect of money as a market good. It's survival of the fittest of money: the best should survive naturally. The technical tweaks can relate to how fast the block times are (which has good and bad trade-offs), to changing the monetary policy. Some altcoins experimented with making the monetary distribution really quick (Bitcoin's halves every 4 years to compare), while others experimented with a monetary policy based on the earth's seasons (Earthcoin). Some makes no sense, but the important thing is that people can try, and experiment if they want to. It's all completely voluntary. If you want to get involved with an altcoin because you believe having one which monetary policy reflects the seasons of the Earth, then you can. Another way in which altcoins have experimented, which is very interesting, is its branding element. The most notorious of this, is the lovable Dogecoin. Jackson Palmer, around November 2013 tweeted as joke: "Investing in Dogecoin. Pretty sure it's the next big thing." It spiralled and a developer got on board (BillyM2K). Within a short few days, Dogecoin launched and in an unprecedented manner went from 0 market cap to almost $200M in 2 months. It gives an interesting insight to how we look at money: it's simply not just its technical features, but also the social aspect of it. It becomes clear that money as a tool, is one that reduces social costs. Some altcoins arrive dead, but some are still around: such as Litecoin (dubbed "Silver to Bitcoin's Gold").  
  
What's important here to take away from altcoin experiments is that we will learn over time whether having only one money makes sense from a social perspective, or whether there'll exist a power-law distribution (1-3 huge currencies + a massive long tail). However: from a technical perspective, altcoins have started morph away from just being money and using the blockchain for new innovative uses. A great example is Namecoin. It creates a distributed key/value store, which basically turns into a registry anyone can edit. I'll touch upon it in the next chapter. Altcoins will rise, die and fail, and we will probably be better off for it, simply because we have alternatives and "can" choose if we want to.  

## Sidechains & Treechains
  
todo

## Financial Smart Contracts
  
Besides being able to move money around more quickly (with less risk), the blockchain also introduces several new features that makes automated finance feasible: smart contracts. Coming back to the "post-office box in the cloud" metaphor. Usually, one box can only be opened by one specific key: its lock was made to match. However, what can be done is that the lock could be made a lot more specific. For example, a lock could be put on that requires 2 different keys. Or there could be a lock that requires a specific pin-code to unlock. If you are so inclined, there could be no lock as well (if you are feeling charitable with your mail). Similarly in Bitcoin, the "lock" to the funds stored in a specific address is a set of code, that if you provide the correct inputs to it, you can unlock it. In a normal transaction, you simply prove that you own that specific address, and then the funds can be unlocked and sent to a new address. Since the "lock" is just code, you could write quite interesting and complex locks. A lot of these interesting use case for under an umbrella term called "multi-sig" transactions. In other words, multiple signatures (keys) are required to unlock the funds.  
  
The first example of multi-sig is to simply require a subset of keys amongst a total pool of keys to unlock the funds: say 2-of-3, or 3-of-5. This is especially useful in circumstances where several people need consensus on where to spend communal funds (ie, a business). This becomes more useful when it is a publicly funded organization. For example, an open source project could solicit donations, and request it to be paid into an address that requires 3 of the 5 core developers' signatures to spend it. Since this address is made public, it is also possible for contributors to audit the expenditure of funds, emphasising transparency. Two examples of open source projects that have done it like this is Ethereum and OpenBazaar (both of which I will touch upon later).  
  
Traditionally, escrow is used in a scenario where two parties do not quite trust each other, and thus require a trusted third party to hold ownership (of something: money, deeds, etc) until both parties have agreed that a mutually satisfying exchange took place. In the event that a dispute occurs, the escrow agent attempts to resolve it per the dispute resolution agreement signed before hand. In the example of Bitcoin, escrow works quite beautifully. In the above example, both parties need to also trust the escrow service to not disappear with their funds. In Bitcoin, a new address can be created that requires 2-of-3 keys: the 2 parties and the escrow provider. This creates a lock on the funds that requires any 2 (of the 3) participants to sign. So instead of the risk of requiring funds to be kept by escrow provider, the escrow provider simply becomes an additional signatory in the event of a dispute. So, if both parties agreed that the transaction went according to their wishes, the funds are released and the escrow provider wasn't really required. In the event of a dispute, the escrow provider is called into action, helps with dispute resolution and then decides to add the 2nd signature in favour of releasing it to either party 1 or party 2.  
  
This means that the traditional idea of "escrow" isn't quite similar, as the escrow provider never holds any funds, and can never spend any of it on their own. In the smart contract space, this role is simply referred to as an arbiter. For their services, a small fee is usually automatically paid. A company called [Bitrated](http://bitrated.com), provides an arbitration marketplace: people who want to promote themselves as arbiters. Arbiters are chosen based on knowledge of the domain of the transaction and reputation. In this example, the arbiter fulfills a role that could be split to that of a notary and the arbiter (the "decision-maker"). A notary is the entity solely responsible for signing the address, while the arbiter is the one whom decides the result of a dispute. OpenBazaar, uses this quite extensively, and I will explain more of that later.  
  
Another type of smart contract that facilitates trade is a leveraged deposit (also called a "bilateral forfeit": pioneered by developers such as David Zimbeck (with BitHalo) and Oleg Andreev). When doing a transaction, the idea is that both parties deposit more into the transaction than they can afford to lose. If they don't come to consensus after some time, then the deposit is donated to a verifiable charity (either to the miner or a real-world charity) or the coins are destroyed. This creates a scenario where ideally, both participants are motivated to come to an amiable conclusion, otherwise they both lose more than they bargained for.

## Payment Plugins

You know on some sites where they ask you to round it up so that small extra bit can go to charity? What if this could be automatically done with all your own payments to the charity of your choice? If you think about it, what is essentially happening is that it's some "plugin" that sits in front (or alongside) the final endpoint: which is paying for the service you initially wanted to pay towards. A term I'd like to use describe these sort of contracts are "payment plugins". It sits between the payer and payee, and does various things (based on the contract), before sending it along. Other variants of "payment plugins" are services such as Mint.com (helps you make sense of your finances). By connecting it to your bank account, it can help you understand your own finances. Payment plugins can generally be divided into 2 categories: When you pay someone and when you get paid. There are currently a few payment plugins that exist, however, I'm sure a lot more will come to exist.

A rudimentary example in Bitcoin is a "green address" (not to be confused with the company called Greenaddress). So, one fundamental difference to understand in Bitcoin is that payments themselves have a probablistic element to them: they are more secure the longer you wait. It's different to traditional banking infrastructure in the sense that when you send someone a payment it's either regarded as "done" or "not done". In Bitcoin, a payment is immediately "done" once sent, but accrues security over time. There's been a misunderstanding from traditional banking institutions that "no one will wait 10 mins to confirm a payment in retail stores". There's not 1 expected confirmation that is required, but confirmations acquire infitely into time. This goes to the core of the blockchain, and how it works (Bitcoin-type blockchains at least). A confirmation is essentially a "lock" on the transactions that was made. To undo that transaction, a computer needs to redo all the computational power to produce a new lock. Once a lock was made on the transactions, computers set out to create another lock. Once this lock is done, it's putting a new lock onto the previous lock. The computers that produce locks on the transactions (so they can't be undone) gets issued with new Bitcoin. When a new amendment to the ledger is made (a new transaction: buying a chocolate at a retail store), then until the next lock is produced that transaction is "up in the air". The person buying the chocolate could make another amendment to the ledger where the transaction goes somewhere else. By the rules of the protocol only one transaction will ever up end being the right one. There's certain rules which determines which one ends up becoming the legitimate amendment. So, in that short time (average 5min) there is some uncertainty on part of the recipient if they should accept that amendment to the ledger. For a chocolate in a retail store, to go through the effort to release another transaction that double spends that money is not feasible. It's like robbing a store to steal a tip. However, receiving a payment from someone you trust, means you know that person won't go through the effort to defraud you. This is essentially what a greed address is. When you receive payments from a specific, you know you can trust it, no matter the amount. Although it reduces privacy considerably, this is a good example of a very basic payment plugin. It simply forwards the payment from a more reputable endpoint.

[Spinjar](http://www.spinjar.me) is a very clever payment plugin that was created by Dennis McKinnon and Lars Kluge. When users donate, a portion of the donation goes into a pool (30%), while the rest (70%) goes to the entity. On every transaction, a user has a chance to win that pool. So, imagine if you donate money to a charity and you can actually make money back from that? When you look at some national lotteries, they are indirectly doing this (with a lot more overhead). You are gambling, with a portion of the funds that are paid out to charities ("good causes"). If you win or lose, you donated to charity. Now, imagine if all endpoints had a verifiable "lottery" like this? What if it could be pooled? For every payment that's done in the world, all money goes into this gambling pool. If you buy a chocolate, you could suddenly be rich!

Another variant I designed is a "Miner's Roulette" contract. You could do this in a Spinjar manner where it is also pool-based and any donations get given to the miners (the computers securing the blockchain). There is a variant of this where when you send money to the contract, there's a chance that all of it will go into a pool, a chance you will win the pool, and a small chance that when it happens, no-one wins the pool, but gets donated as fees in the next block. A more interesting one, is that instead of being donated as fees, those coins are verifiably destroyed. This means that when you gamble in this contract, that donation ends being a net benefit since those coins that are destroyed are taking out of circulation.

As you can see a payment plugin can be quite simple (as above), playing with the money before it gets sent onwards. I started thinking about variations of payment plugins quite a while back when I wondered what a world would like if we had a "coin" for everything: we attempt to quantify each network (from people to towns, to individual songs). When you look at a traditional company, the incentive structure is set up to reward the owners of it. Rarely do customers or clients get a chance to "invest" or form of the part of the ownership of it (until IPO). To keep customers satisfied and feel like they are being rewarded for continued patronage (lets think of a normal retail store), loyalty schemes are usually invented. Thus, by investing time and money, in a way, they get rewarded proportionally for it. Every day, by simply living, we affect the world: like buying food and using electricity. Yet, rarely do we get to form of the wealth creation structures although we contribute to it. We use word-of-mouth, tweeting about a great new place to have lunch, and by simply living in a specific town, you contribute to the growth of it. Forming a company for everything seems a bit over the top, simply because the efficiencies of scale for a world like that won't work. If you could wilfully buy equity in a local restaurant if you wanted to, it would be too much admin, paper-work and so forth to enforce it well. With blockchain technology, a lot can be automated, and thus reduce these inefficiences to attempt to solve these problems. Even if you can reduce the risk and increase consumer protection through this, there still exists the problem of having huge amounts of "public stock" floating around with very low volumes. An automated bot with a risk ruleset can be written that checks all these markets and does trading for you, but that even then seems to just complicate the problem. A simpler solution could exist: creating a way to represent ownership in order to share in the wealth creation happening around you every day (that you invariably form apart of). This is something I've been working, and it is called an "automated network investment contract" (ANIC). It's a type of "payment plugin" that mimics ownership, and the effects you have on networks (it is not into perpetuity).

The idea behind an ANIC is still in progress (and requires feedback, criticism and testing), but it works as follows. When you pay for something, a percentage (say 90%) goes towards to the producer (say a restaurant) and 10% gets entered into a type of short-term investment contract. There are variations from here onwards. The first variation is that the 10% of the payment you just made represents a portion of "equity". Each transaction gets placed into a queue. When your transaction is in that queue, the amount you paid represents a portion of equity (compared to all other transactions in the queue). So for example, if there are 10 transactions in the queue, and each transaction bought the same meal, then your percentage of "equity" would be proportionally 10%. If you pay more than the usual price ("you buy a big meal with lots of champagne"), your proportion of equity in the queue would be higher than others. With each new transaction, the queue moves on. If you are out, you no longer have any "equity" anymore. The 10% that goes into the contract gets paid to all the people in front of you in the queue. The depth of the queue could be 100, 200, 1000 or 10000. In other words, you earn money back from the places you frequent. On some occasions you could get lucky, and back more than thant he 10%. A variation of this is that your proportion represents your chance to get "lucky" and win all of the 10% that gets into the queue vs it being spread equally. This comes back to the Spinjar gambling contracts. Each payment you do becomes a chance to become lucky.

One might wonder if this beats the purpose. Wouldn't a retailer just charge 10% markup to cover the cost of an ANIC? A retailer could just charge 10% less, and not have any further contract involvement with each patron. Perhaps, and both options could exist. The more pertinent question is: Would you be willing to pay a bit more for goods and services with the knowledge that you could earn all your money back?

Although this might not be the final version of the right ANIC, the goal is to move towards a model where hopefully we can partake in wealth creation more automatically, whilst attempting to solve the problems that come from having a long tail of equity opportunities. A more perfect ANIC would grow more with more frequent involvement (more "investment") and incentivize being early (taking a risk to trying a new place). At the very least, the possibility of an automated investment contract is possible. Blockchain platforms like Ethereum makes this extremely easy to code (more on this later).

A savings payment plugin is also possible. With each payment you make, you simply specify a portion of it should be added from your wallet (the wallet will have to provide this) that locks up that Bitcoin for a certain time period. Since blocks are produced as time goes, Bitcoin is also sometimes referred to as a "distributed timestamp server". With block timing being on average every 10 minutes, it is possible (with the contracting system built into Bitcoin) to verifiably lock Bitcoin so that it can't be spent until some time in the future. This means you can actually force yourself with maths to save up for the vacation in Thailand. You'd have to be extra careful with something like this since those Bitcoin can't be reversed for emergencies!

There's probably a lot more you can do with the idea of a "payment plugin". when you wonder what you can add, do or manipulate with the money as you pay or get paid.

## Decentralized Finance

It's fitting that one of the last examples in this chapter ends with describing Bitcoin as a "distributed timestamp server". Being able to verify the order of ownership (over time) is what makes some of the more exciting use cases possible. We've seen what becomes possible when you want to use Bitcoin (& the blockchain) for moving around money in new ways. Using the blockchain only for decentralized finance would be like saying you have a set of post-office boxes specifically made just storing bills. Luckily we know it can hold so much more (like a receipt to collect a package, or a letter from grandma which still doesn't get e-mail unfortunately).
