# Decentralized Realities

"At first, I was quietly immersed. Then, I felt a tear well up, blurring the view. Then I was choking back sounds as my wife was next to me reading a book, not realizing I was feeling so overwhelmed. I was a person in a messy apartment in New Jersey, with a virtual reality headset on my weeping face, far removed from Jordan, or Syria." Donning Gear VR (a virtual realy head-mounted display), Scott Stein, writer at CNet, explained his experience being immersed in the "Clouds over Sidra" demo. It's a virtual reality experience that follows a quick walk through the Za'atari refugee camp in Jordan for displaced Syrians.

When we look at these experiences, we can see them as as culmination of decades of building immersive & escapist experiences. From film to games and now, the ultime immersion: virtual reality. It's a space where people are brought to tears: not just from empathising with Syrian refugees but also marvelling at the beauty of a space station in "Elite: Dangerous". To some extent, you can argue that the rise of these momentary "alternate spaces" has had a positive effect on humanity. It is seen as escapism, but it also has another edge to it... that of creating a meme that we should look at reality, and modify it to fit with the alternate worlds we were a part of. People have been inspired by the sci-fi technolgy in Star Trek. People have learned on how to conduct a community by being a guild leader in World of Warcaft. Each time, these other worlds where memes cultivate, finds it way back to reality. However, these alternate realities, have only been exactly that: alternate ones. It is always tangential to our current reality. I remember being amazed by Eve: Online, a complex MMO where you can be anything: a space trader dealing in commodities trading, or a backstabbing mercenary sent to infiltrate a rival corporation. I would start playing it, and I really enjoyed it, until I realised... the only way I could fully enjoy this experience is if this was my only life. To understand the complexity of it, and to engage fully in it, would mean I had to perform trade-offs. Wouldn't it be grand, I thought, if that could legitimately be your well-being? I could drop out of high-school and become a leader of a grand galactic space corporation.

You still had to some real-life job, and that was what we accepted. In some circumstances, these alternate realities could become our livelihoods. Second Life has a legitimate way to trade the virtual currency in & out of the virtual world. You can build objects for other people to use, own land and rent it out, all earning Linden Dollars, which has a market-based exchange rate. However, it became increasingly restrictive (for fear of money laundering), and for the most part was basically restricted to affluent countries. However, these alternate economies, by virtue of some loopholes (game time is sold as virtual items in the game) accrue a valuation. Early 2014, it was estimated that the Eve: Online universe was worth $18 million. In this regard, you can see that to make this your livelihood is restrictive and propably the domain of very few.

The blockchain can help bring forth these alternate realities as legitimate avenues to "live" in several ways. Using a combination of decentralized finance, property, trade, organisations, artificial intelligence and law, it not only creates a decentralized basis for our current reality, but any other one.

## Digital Money

The first, important way in which Bitcoin can influence alternate realities is by using it as a currency in those realities. By name, "digital" is both usable in the physical world as well is in the "virtual". With Bitcoin, its value as a currency exists both in the real world and in any virtual world. You can send money to others in this ledger through your phone when paying a merchant as equally you could if you pay an NPC for his new mail hauberk. It gets interesting on several levels. The first if you just simply replace a virtual world's currency for it. This means that the developer is no longer in control of monetary supply, but it means you can earn BTC from within the game. You challenge another player to a duel and if you both believe that the world creator (the developer) is a responsible mediator (that you both can trust), you can easily wager on these. If you are good, you can earn your keep, and within 5 minutes pop down to a corner and spend that exact same amount of Bitcoin you just earned buying yourself a nice juicy pie and some soda.

This however assumes a relatively normal game world that is not based on the premise that its currency is portable into the real world. When that is a given, different dynamics start to change. You could think in the vain of Project Entropia or Second Life, where you could money generating businesses & property. As a developer of the game, you could build new areas and sell them at auction to players which in turn can rent them out and sell wares from these stores. If you want, as a world developer, you could even consider that in order to play the game, each transaction within the game (from an internal wallet) has a small fee (world tax), that goes towards more development and server costs.

The issue with this setup though is that it is only the money that is tracked by the game, nothing else. As a player in this alternate world, you are beholden to the game and its intricacies to properly mediate the experience. If there is a bug or an exploit, it can be a pretty serious issue. There is no way for the company to reimburse you if you lost due to a bad connection. The options for repudiation is little, since the money is not. In some cases, the world developer might even be unrecognisably nefarious: purposefully creating negligible glitches in their favour.

However, we know that we can property management, organizations, law and so forth in a decentralized manner. It is possible to start going into a deeper rabbit hole: creating a whole reality that is decentralized. There is no middle-man anywhere.

## Blockchains as Reality Mediators

The first potential in virtual reality for the blockchain to extend beyond money is ownership of various goods. If I send you a virtual sword, the world developer maintains its own ledger, and updates the player who owns it. So, as with transferring the ownership of accounts in Bitcoin, you can similarly just transfer ownership of an item. There are currently games being developed on services such as Counterparty that do exactly this. An example is [Deckbound](https://www.deckbound.com/]) that uses tokens on the Bitcoin blockchain to represent cards in a trading card game. This card game can be played from the real world, but could almost exactly be played by avatars in a virtual world. The same technical parts would be used. You can do any other type of property, up to the ownership of real estate. 

Another use case is for abritration and trade of these digital goods. As was described in chapter 3, these same back-end architectures (like OpenBazaar) can be used as is in a virtual world. It can provide level of consumer security. Later on, you could start writing more comlex smart contracts that deal with more complex use cases, such as managing finances of a fantasy guild (like what is used in chapter 4).

As you start going deeper you realise you are essentially starting remove layers of centralization of the game and placing it onto a decentralized system of consensus. What about scenarios where you are fighting? Or scenarios with comlext in-game trading? These are problems that are currently being figured out, as doing everything on a blockchain would not scale (both in terms of speed and size). There are debates about how much could be pushed "off-chain", but still verified later, and if it makes sense to put certain events on or off-chain. In a way, the core rules could remain on a blockchain, with everything else being "skins" to this set of rules. Like there are different wallets to the Bitcoin blockchain, you can define a certain set of rules that are executable on the blockchain and new actors can skin their "view of the world" onto it. Let's assume we can solve the issues of scale and we can properly map a lot of interactions in a completely decentralized manner. This has massively profound effects.

## Augmented Reality

A decentralized layer reality could be virtual as well as augmented. Projects such as the Magic Leap and Microsoft's Hololens could prove to massively shape our perception of our current reality. We can perceive of objects that aren't in the physical space but make up our reality. There's a great short called "Sight" in which the character, armed with an augmented reality contact lens looks at his apartment and sees it full of life and interactivity... only for it to be actually completely blank. This new world that will bloom before our eyes need to be "called" from somewhere. The content and the interaction with it will probably have some uplink to the internet. For example, the objects might be streamed down from a server at Microsoft. As you can probably imagine at this point, we are faced with another fundamental problem of ownership. Who will control and mediate this augmented reality? Will it be Microsoft? Would I potentially require a credit card payment to Microsoft while I'm at an art gallery to see an augmented art piece? Would the creator get only a usual, say 70% split, from it? Would that be a reality we want? These questions existed before, and it was important questions. However, when we have a believable augmented reality (that feels like real life), we wouldn't want it to be controlled by a Microsoft or any other institution. In some sense, we've been okay with Google or Facebook implementing filters to "improve our experience", because we can always opt-out. It's becoming increasingly difficult to do so, but we can. However, if augment reality will be a big portion of our lives and of our very existence, opting out, won't be easy.

In that sense, similar to virtual realities, we don't want Facebook's metaverse to be the defining reality. We want to be in control of our experiences and own our objects in these new realities. By now, it probably seems obvious, but the blockchain's role here would be to distribute ownership of these digital goods in the augmented reality. If you have an augmented lampshade cover, created by a new and upcoming designer, you can create digital authenticity of this item. Once bought, you own it. Like normal counterfeits, people would probably be able to create others like it (that look the same), but it will be unique. If you want to transfer this augmented object to someone else, it will work in a similar manner as you transfer Bitcoin and or any other kind of property on the blockchain.

### IPFS

[IPFS](http://ipfs.io), which stands for "InterPlanetary File System", is a novel new way to distribute information across the Internet. It uses several foundational technologies that the web has created and combines to create a distributed content hosting platform. It uses combinations of torrent technology, git & distributed hash tables to allow people to host a file on their computer, but then be able to instantly access it with a unique identifier. To make sure this file can still be accessed, other users can pin this file on their computers as well. It is also smart about how it fetches content. It won't have to route all the way to the United States if I want to watch a video that my friends on the same network JUST watched. In short, it is a distributed content hosting network. All content would have a unique identifier. So in other words, a specific picture of a cat would be retrieved by that picture's identifier. It then queries the IPFS network to get the address of the closest person who is hosting and then download it from there (as opposed to also going through Facebook, for example). It's quite novel and should serve to bring forth quite novel applications. The biggest change in perspective it brings, is that you can download content with only a unique identifier. You don't have to know "where" to go find the data, only what its identifier is.

This could serve very useful in a decentralized augmented reality application. IPFS serves as the distribution layer. A blockchain is used on top of this keep track of ownership and allow the object to do some interesting things. For example, the object can be encrypted to a specific address (or set of them), specified by the owner. This is maintained through a contract on a blockchain like Ethereum. This could mean that only those who are authorised to do so, can look at it.

## Conclusion

Currently, when you look at blockchain technology, it is nowhere near the potential for it to host things like Quake or Doom on it. It's a basis for "state logic" that's relevant to decentralize. Even at this early scale, it can have quite profound effects on us and society. As mentioned in the beginning, when we look at games, we do to some extent imagine them as alternate pockets of reality.

((Effect on real life. Massive cascading effects. Mention Balaji's comments about cloud countries. Mention Neal Stephenson Phyles))
