# Decentralized Law

Collectively, we all agree to, that some people have the right to put others behind bars. We let this social construct exist, because collectively, we feel that the benefit outweighs the cost. We cede control to some unifying body to collectively allow us to create more "trustless" situations in our society. If I sign a lease for my apartment, I can eventually appeal to external actors (the law) if the contract was breached, and so recourse can occur if needed. If there wasn't any recourse possible, I had to incorporate trust into the agreement: I had to just know that this person won't in any attempt to breach the contract. In this case, it usually only occurs effectively if both parties have "skin in the game". For example, if it is your friend, they would not want to destroy the relationship and thus you work with each other just based on this verbal agreement/contract. If there is no skin in the game, then an appeal to an arbiter is usally desired. Currently this arbiter is usually the courts (and ultimately, the state). 

If there is a breach of contract, it is eventually taken to court. Eventually defying a court order, could eventually lead to incarceration. As such, the ultimate "arbiter" is force. For the most part, people voluntarily opt into this system, because even though force is eventually used to get a person into prison, it's an agreed upon social norm in various jurisdictions. In certain circumstances, we accept the potential fallbility of such a system: the potential for this authority to be misused, in return that we know that it is used ultimately for the "greater good". Over time, if this gets abused, a society can reach breaking point and revolt against this status quo, to once again make it fair. That's the hope at least.

As such, most agreements which require interacting beyond the established trust relationships we have, require a direct arbiter we both agree upon. This layer of arbiters eventually cascade up to the highest one: the law of the country. It's obviously a lot more complex than this. What is apparent from the current status quo that we choose to live with is that we accept force and violence to be the ultimate deterrers to staying with an agreement: it is punishment for defecting. Secondly, because of this, the use of arbiters gravitate towards a pyramid infrastructure. It is easier for us to have one police, than several. It is Hobbes' Leviathan. As [Brett Scott](http://www.e-ir.info/2014/06/01/visions-of-a-techno-leviathan-the-politics-of-the-bitcoin-blockchain/) writes: "self-regarding people realise that it is in their interests to exchange part of their freedom for security of self and property, and thereby enter into a contract with a Sovereign, a deified personage that sets out societal rules of engagement."

Hypothetically, we could have a mutual friend be an arbiter in the case of a dispute, but the problem comes in when the issue at hand is greater than the friendship and then you are stuck with a scenario where the outcome was negative for everyone involved. There is/was no recourse.

## Code as Law

((quote about code is law)).

To a large extent, all the previous chapters explain ways in which a lot of the way we do things can be automated through blockchain technology: we can do finance, property, trade & create organisations without any intermediary. All through these processes we require law to enable them (when not using blockchain mediators). The use of Ricardian contracts in OpenBazaar (for trade). To create a company, we require legal documents to enforce shares & ownership structures. We rely on the state to keep record of land & property and appeal to them if it has been violated. It's because ultimately (and this is grossly oversimplified), we can't enforce things besides using paper (or databases these days) & people. Combining all these useful self-enforcing code will definitely lead to a lot of what law (especially civil law) is supposed to provide to society, meaningless. Law will be replace by code. Not all law will be, but a lot of it will. It will also provide empowerment & agency to a lot of people who can't necessarily have access to lawyers to create binding contracts.

## Smarts Contract as Law

When you have self-enforcing code that act as the mediators, it changes somewhat to the law we currently know. Nick Szabo, inventor of the term "smart contract", calls this difference "wet" vs "dry" code, referring to social & trust requirements as "wet" and "dry" as the self-enforcing algorithms. Quinn DuPont & Bill Maurer, writing about [blockchains & law](http://kingsreview.co.uk/magazine/blog/2015/06/23/ledgers-and-law-in-the-blockchain/) distinguishes how the current world of contracts require external factors to resolve them, compared to smart contracts which by design has to contain it. In other words, these self-enforcing contracts can remove all "wet" parts from contracts. If there is no code that allows for a dispute, it is not possible to have them. An "appeal" in a smart contract system can only work if the system is design to accomodate. For example, OpenBazaar's notary/arbiter system. Once the code is live, it is dumb and follows the rules that is coded for it.

This "dumbness" is both an advantage and a disadvantage. The advantage is that, there is simply no ambiguity. It executes what it is given to execute. However, some companies in this nascent space has decided to rather use self-enforcing contracts & augment with current legal documents. In other words, the smart contract is a self-enforcing abstraction of the larger legal contract. This removes some ambiguity of what the purpose of the contract is for, and what the participants agree upon when they entered into it. Hypothetically, if someone is to be prosecuted (by whatever authority), and said judge, not having anything else to go by, determines that this contract does something else than what the participants believed it is for at that time, then a document can disambiguate it. Eris Industries, has a project called [legal markdown](http://lmd.io). In it, they emphasise: "the pure code of a smart contract has a limited ability to "reach" outside the context of their data store to incorporate a legally-binding contractual understanding". Similarly, Common Accord has their own legal framework for "crypto-ledger transactions", also advocating including legal templates into smart contracts so that it extends into current law: "Legal enforceability would essentially allow for only the main-case set to be handled by smart-contracts, leaving the edge-case set to be handled by the courts."
 
## Mass arbiters

However, if ambiguity is not an issue, then it begs the question why any additional resources are required (like the requirement of current courts & law). For example, when transferring Bitcoin, there's a small piece of code that gets executed that unlocks the Bitcoin and sends it along to a new person to unlock. For most circumstances, it is pretty obvious what is happening here: someone is sending Bitcoin to another address. Arguably, for a large portion of smart contracts, having extra legal enforcement from law won't really be required. Or rather, it might help, but it might end being too much effort for what it is worth. It's strength to enforce speaks for itself.

In that manner, being able to enforce, and bringing that ability to the people is a powerful idea. In other words, as the history of technology has shown, it democratizes access. In this case, it democratizes access to enforcing rules (through math & code). Instead of opting for traditional pyramid power structures, we can opt for a more peer to peer law system. This could give rise to a mass system of arbiters. As previously mentioned, services like Bitrated and OpenBazaar allow anyone to be an arbiter. It could be the case right now, however, not everyone has the authority to definitively be one. If any 2 people believe that a specific person is the best authority to be an arbiter on a specific topic, then they can choose to do so. The current option right now is to believe that the state knows enough to be the best arbiter on every issue.

The fact that we can use these systems to create a democratization of arbiters is an exciting prospect. Besides just enabling its supposed purposes (eg trade), it also drastically changes the reliance on overarching systems of law. If I buy a PlayStation online, then both participants in the exchange will want an arbiter who they know will be partial, but most importantly understand the domain. In this scenario, they can find a person who is an expert in gaming consoles, and has a proven track record of resolving disputes in this space. Previously they could not enforce rulings, but now they can.

Being an arbiter with domain knowledge that can enforce rules is just one potential example where a person is suddenly imbued with additional power, that in effect, was the domain of states. A 10-year old kid in school can now create a currency that is more secure against counterfeiting than the biggest fiat currencies in the world. Ultimately these enforcement mechanisms lead towards a future of polycentric law: one where these tools come represent opt-in & voluntary ways to intermediate. If a community want themselves to be bound by smart contracts mimicing the tenets of Sharia law, they can do so. Platforms like BitNation ("blockchains, not borders") want to create these representations and provide these powerful, self-enforcing contracts for anyone to opt into.

Once you start combining all these tools, you end up a with scenario where any community can self-govern themselves without immediately requiring the momentum & network effect of money & years of building. Vinay Gupta, a resilience guru & the inventor of the Hexayurt, got involved with blockchain technology after seeing the plight that refugee camps go through. It's difficult to provide them with the correct, needed infrastructure to self-govern in times of crisis. He proposed an idea called the ["state in a box"](http://guptaoption.com/8.state_in_a_box.php). It involves primarily 2 components: physical infrastructure (such as water & power) and then tools to allow social coordination ("functions of the state"). The latter is what is important with regards to the blockchain. Consider the concept of a DAO that was covered in a previous chapter: it is essentially a collection of tools to allow a group of people to pursue a common goal (the "organisation") without requiring centralised tools & services. This same of set tools of can be skinned for use in various ways in which a group of people want to organise themselves: "online community in a box", "startup in a box", "private equity market in a box", "city in a box", up to "state in a box". Ultimately, the same kind of social coordination patterns exist, it just changes in terms of scale.

## The Analog Gap

We can paint a future where access control is limited to cryptographic keys: you can only enter your home if you have that key. Or, you can only get into the self-driving electric car if you prove you bought 30min of time for it. For now ((elaborate))

## Conclusion

Imagining a world where law is math, could actually paint a dystopian future. Primavera de Filippi argued this by asking if we are actually being faced with ["Freenet" or "Skynet"](https://cyber.law.harvard.edu/events/luncheon/2014/04/difilippi)? The act of trying to codify inherently "wet" contracts into "dry" ones, means you are losing complexities by abstracting it. A lot of contracts don't need much complexity, in which case, smart contracts serve to replace them and improve efficiency, but for a lot of scenarios, we might want variability/flexibility. This is especially the case when we consider how power structures have always evolved over time. Having the possibility to break a contract lead to revolutions, and to where we are today. A lot of the greatest stories told have been of pariahs breaking the shackles and leading change against adversity. If we use something as strong as cryptography and mathematics to govern ourselves, we could eventually be lead to a path where no dissent is ever possible, and that is indeed dystopian. As these things go, the future won't ever be as extreme to one side as we imagine. As Brett Scott affirms: "We do not want a future society free from people we have to trust, or one in which the most we can hope for is privacy. Rather, we want a world in which technology is used to dilute the power of those systems that cause us to doubt trust relationships." Smart contracts can promise that. 

As Phil Barry eloquently puts it: "people agree to be bound by whatever consensus-based dispute resolution/enforcement is offered". For a long time, this was primarily the state. Things are about to change: the potential offerings for consensus-based dispute resolution/enforcement tools will grow. The state won't be replaced entirely, just like how every new technology simply removed the non-essential features of the previous iteration it disrupted. TV didn't kill radio. Internet didn't kill media... It simply changed & redefined its purpose. The state might lose some of its power it no longer needs to provide, but that state that will be left will be more refined and more capable to deal with providing for its citizens. Those that desire to stick with the status quo will be left behind like all the other incumbents who refused to adapt. The media companies that changed & adapted to the web, became global brands & powerhouses. The states that absorb these tools, will thrive.
