# Decentralized Property

When we usually look property rights (in the form of real estate), we rely on two systems to make it work. The first is the proper record-keeping tools ("who owns what"), and the second is the enforcement of those rights. In the developed world, it's usually taken for granted that the records are good enough that you don't really that you could be buying a title deed with your life's work and realise the next day that you bought a piece of worthless paper. Additionally, when disputes arise, that the state helps to enforce this, by the usual agreement of: "I'll pay taxes if I can call on you to get invaders off my lawn."

State enforcement of property rights might be working fine, but there are cases in the world where proper record-keeping of ownership is poor. Having a blockchain-based system could mean that you could potentially repurpose it for use in various "ownership verticals": from basic things such as private and public equity to land registries. [Antonis Polemitis crowdsourced a list](http://ledracapital.com/blog/2014/3/11/bitcoin-series-24-the-mega-master-blockchain-list) from Twitter of potential uses for the blockchain (in terms of its use a distributed, public registry) and it's more than 84 possibilities. 1 of these 84 possibilities is currency: dubbed the "first app" of the blockchain. The possibilities for it to keep track (or "keep state") of almost everything makes you suddenly question a lot of the current record-keeping systems we have. The use of the blockchain to keep track of the owernship of various items, is called "smart property".

## Equity

Leading onwards from decentralized finance, the first obvious use case, is to use the blockchain to keep track of ownership in an entity: shares or equity if you will. Several technology platforms have blossomed in 2013/2014 that uses Bitcoin (and other blockchains) as the base layer: such as Open Assets, Counterparty, Mastercoin, NXT, Horizon & BitShares. The meta-layers such as Counterparty (often called "Bitcoin 2.0") works by using addresses to store additional information in them. In a rudimentary metaphor (coming back to our lovable post-office box), it is like being able to store other things besides mail in it ((perhaps not the best metaphor)).

There are various reasons why you would want to do it this way: 1) instantly, mathematically secure, 2) public and immediately auditable and perhaps the most important part, 3) the exchange and dividend payments is done both with and [on top of the platform it is run](https://gendal.wordpress.com/2014/10/05/cryptocurrency-products-and-services-will-determine-adoption-of-the-currency-not-the-other-way-round/). It also means, just like with how Bitcoin allows people access to a currency with only the internet, people can mint provably secure shares and equity in their company or venture, make it available to any investor in the world within seconds. This is of course, right now, in such a legally grey area, because what is essentially happening is a public offering. It's arguable that the regulation invented to prevent people form just arbitrarily creating public offers for investment becomes less and less required due to the fact that you extremely secure, decentralized stock units & you can do additional auditing such as proof-of-reserves.

To trade on these platforms, Counterparty, for example allows the existence of a decentralized exchange as well: users can exchange Bitcoin or other assets like a normal exchange, except there is no custodial control (such as with normal Bitcoin exchanges) since fiat currencies aren't used.

## Super Tokens ((think of a better name))

There are legal loopholes (which is still somewhat up in the air), where companies have minted tokens, but instead of it acting like the usual share, it enables additional actions within an eco-system instead. So, it is creating a scarce resource which you require in order to interact with a system. For example, the LetsTalkBitcoin media network, created LTBCoin, which is the only currency used to pay for ads on the network. Additionally, they provide additional incentives for the token holders. These include a unique distribution mechanism (essentially given to the users of the LTB network), and things like token-controlled access (you can only get access to a forum if you hold some LTBCoin). As can be seen, because these tokens are similarly programmable and represent ownership of a certain community, you can empower token holders with various features unique to that community.

Another example of a unique uses of a token system, is a game called "Spells of Genesis". The game has essentially 2 tokens that are used for resources: one is external (and the other internal to the game). The external token is the blockchain token, minted with something like Counterparty. In "Spells of Genesis", it is called "mines", to emphasise its use in the game world. Mine tokens generate gems, which in turn is a consumable used to do various things in the game (eg, getting an enhancement for combat). Users who play the game can buy gems (like any in-app purchase in games). When they do, users who also hold mines, gets rewarded with gems as well. So, you can either just buy gems each time, or hold mines to generate gems for you. If you think about it in terms of a venn diagram, the mine token is external, living on the blockchain and its use intersects into the game world: generating gems. Mines float like any asset: it can be bought or sold. If you think the game is good and will get very popular, you might even want to speculate and buy up some mines to make a real-world profit (not a profit in game). It's really clever, because if the game is popular, more gems get produced, which is also a good "return on investment" if you are invested in playing the game itself. It is like "dividends", but you get internal tokens to a game world, not Bitcoin or any other form of money. There's definitely several more use cases here that could be explored. What about a Reddit-like site, where votes gets distributed to holders of an external asset? The votes only have a use inside the ecosystem, not outside. It blurs the line between what is an asset and what we regard to be "value". Within any closed loop system, you can design this type of model.

Another example of using a token in a similar manner is in "artist coins". Projects initiated by Niceplum, Tatiana Moroz, Peertracks and myself (with The Cypherfunks) all approach this avenue in slightly different ways. I started The Cypherfunks in February 2014. The project was a combination of different prospects: 1) learning to code a full cryptocurrency, 2) experimenting with how we organise as creatives in the 21st century and 3) testing the hypothesis of whether people would want to join a project and affiliate it by acquiring a token that represents that community. The second reason boils down to the fact that in this digital age, good music can spread like wildfire across the internet, but the act of playing live is still restricted to physical time and space (a band can only tour so much). The idea was to push it a bit further, and ask whether a freely affiliated "band" could accelerate that: people playing as the band without permission in different venues at the same time, across the world. The final part is what I call the "Dogecoin hypothesis". As I previously mentioned, Dogecoin was launched on 8 December 2014, and it is still around: one of the biggest cryptocurrencies, both in terms of value and volume. Dogecoin works, not because it has superior technical features to other altcoins, but simply because it is a "branding" exercise: people want Dogecoin to be a part of the story, the community and its people. So, the question is: could value of money simply be a quantified network effect? I've learned a lot from this experiment and my belief is, is that niche money does not work if you roll out your own blockchain. The incentive structures to maintain such a decentralized system requires that for it to not remain consistently insecure due to low hashing power or low value, it requires that the tokens it represents should strive to be "all money", not simply "niche money". In other words, for a blockchain to survive, at least in some form, it should strive to eventually be the only money that exists. The economic and technical incentives, currently do not support niche money for full blockchains (I might yet be proven wrong).

On the other hand, musicians such as Niceplum and Tatiana both have used systems like Counterparty and Mastercoin to create tokens representing them and their endeavours. For example, Niceplum has a token that is a profit sharing token: some of the proceeds of Niceplum's music sales goes to the token holders. When you realise that you can create verifiable and secure tokens (even a 12-year old can do it now), there's potential to go more and more singular. In the past, creating a system, for example, where we can buy shares in each other, didn't seem possible, simply because we either had to go through an intermediary that manages it, or deal with the systemic inefficiences of trusting someone that if they hand you a piece of paper that it actually represents them.

While KMikeyM (pioneered by Mike Merril) does not use blockchain tech as its base, it is a good example of such a future. He sold shares of himself. The project currently does not support dividends from his income, but he uses it to ask his shareholders to help him make life decisions ((add example)). We don't even have to stop at individuals: what about buying equity in a song? This is what Peetracks are attempting to do. If you think a song will be popular, then you can speculate on it. As I mentioned the idea of ANICs (Automated Network Investment Contracts) in chapter 1, you realise that the potential exists for blockchain technology to underpin and unearth plenty networks of value that hasn't been quantified before: from corporations, to people to songs. We inuitively know there exists networks of value that is not reflected or quantified in our currenct financial system, simply because of poor systemic inefficiency: it doesn't make sense to quantify networks at those levels. But with blockchain technology, it can all be automated. Who knows, perhaps in the future, you would put money towards a song hedge fund that actively scours the web to find up and coming songs to invest in?

## A state of reality

A common theme with blockchain technology is its use to establish consensus about the state of various things: from currency ownership to shares in an artist. For the most part, these applications don't programmatically extend into the real world: it requires a bridge of trust. For example, I only know that Tatiana's token represents her music is because she said so. More and more of new technology in the space tries to answer the question of how you extend a blockchain's reach into the real world. I'll give an example of what I mean. This is already possible.

Because, the blockchain is a state of accounts, you can assign additional rights to different addresses. So, for example: Say I want to book a hotel. I pay for it, and state that I own a certain address (this can be proven programmatically). The door to my room is then automatically wired to only open if I once again prove that I own my address. This could all be done automatically through custom software and communication tech such as NFC. With token-based systems, you can extend this further, creating automated timeshares. If you mint 52 tokens, each programmed to open a door for 1 week of the year, you can sell them on the decentralized exchange. If you don't want the access anymore, you can sell it without an intermediary. This does bring up some questions related to security, since losing such a token means no one ever will be able to open that door again, unless you build in additional security features such as the M-of-N multi-signature schemes as I mentioned in chapter 1. It's an interesting to restrict or give access based on that state of the blockchain. An art piece I've had in mind that I want to build still, is a bot that randomly picks 25% of the current account of the Bitcoin blockchain, and for the next 2 hours, anyone who can prove they own that address to a machine (by also signing a special, randomized message that is only visible in the location itself), results in the machine dispensing something. I'll talk more about the potential of autonomous agents in later chapters.

On a different trust scale (between full trust as with artist coins to locks through the blockchain), you get oracles. These are programs set up to gather information about the real world, either manually by people, or through a specific protocol, and then interacts with the blockchain to change state. This is a way to get the blockchain to interact with reality (so to speak). An example of this a site called "Reality Keys". You register an event with them to track: they use public data feeds such as Freebase, exchange rates or sport results. When the event succeeds, they issue you a certain key, and if it fails they issue you another key (in technical terms: you can create a contract with the public keys, and receive the private key for whichever the result is). So, in essence, you could say: IF your favourite team wins the cup, you get a key that opens a door that has champagne in it. If they fail you get a key to a door that has spiders in it. This process is however automated with a smart contract (as I mentioned in chapter 1).

What oracles essentially do is they release access to a key... and this key could be funds (such as giving access to money once a kid becomes 18), or access to information. For example, take a will. It's information that has to be kept secret until the point you die. Similarly to how a door only unlocks with the help of the oracle releasing the correct key, it can keep track of death announces (or through other means) to release a key to unlock/decrypt a document. It's slightly more complex than this, as I'm not sure how legally enforceable it would be. However, you can use the blockchain in these circumstances to timestamp when the document was published as well: this gives additional credence to the authenticity of the document. As in: "I, Simon wrote this will, and published the information to the Bitcoin blockchain. It is unlockable through a key that is to be released by an oracle. When that key is released the authenticity of the document will also be verified." Orisi is such a start-up that builds open source oracle services. 

Writing information to the blockchain is another novel concept. It provides a way to prove without the requirement of a 3rd party that something happened at a certain point in time. This is really powerful. One way to do this is through a service called Cryptograffiti. It allows you store phrases on the Bitcoin blockchain. The way this works is as follows: imagine that this set of post-office boxes can really big. There exists the possibility that you can put something into one without there ever actually being someone that would own it. But because all of them are numbered, you can write a simple protocol which says: "If I put a note into box 302901921, box 8989433 and box 55598892123029, the combination reveals the message: 'I like sunsets' based on a specific protocol". In block ((get block number)) I've written a short 2 word phrase using Cryptograffiti. One of those transactions reveals a message. If you use Cryptograffiti, and know how to unlock the codes, you'll know what I've written there.

Another way to do use it to store other information is to hash a document into the blockchain. I've experimented with this, having published ideas and documents to the blockchain to "prove" that at that stage I already had that idea. How this works is straightforward. You can't write the whole document to the blockchain: it's too big. It will bloat it. What you can do, is simply write a hash of a document to it. Hashing a digital document is a bit complex in terms of cryptography to explain, but what is essentially happening is that you are condensing that information to a unique identifier that's much smaller than the whole document. "This is a sentence" will generate a unique hashed ID vs "This is also a sentence", which will generate a completely different ID. At that time, it is proven that the document that was published into the blockchain is the definitive one. In the post-office box metaphor, it's like when they leave a reciept inside it, that tells you, you have a large package you have to come collect. It becomes a very cheap, very secure notary service. Several services have popped that allow users to automatically and quickly publish information like this. Proof of Existence by Manual Araoz allows you to upload a document, which then hashes it, and publishes that hash into the blockchain. As you might imagine, if everyone document ever produced requires their own hash to secure it through the blockchain, it does however bloat it.

Projects like Factom, on a grander scale allow application developers to use this for document proof and record-keeping without requiring every document to be signed and hashed into the Bitcoin blockchain. What's important to realise here is that when you hash something, the ID is always a set length, no matter how big the input. Additionally, through the help of clever cryptographic schemes such as merkle trees, it's possible to "hash" all the world's information and make it scalable to retrieve as well. As I mentioned previously, the important promise of using the blockchain to keep track of ownership (and not having to worry about the security/auditing of it). Businesses could use this to effectively manage their books automatically. This does potentially mean most of the auditing jobs in the future would become useless (to my auditing friends: sorry!). Factom essentially becomes a notary layer on top of Bitcoin. It's not feasible to store full records in this notary layer, but it makes sense to use to keep state. Users of Factom can use their own private data with this, but users can also use upcoming services such as Storj, Maidsade and Ethereum's Swarm to store data in a decentralized manner.

## Decentralized Storage

Traditionally, the way data is currently distributed in a decentralized fashion is through the torrent model. It's purely altruistic: it relies on people that are willing to seed their data for others to leech from. To retrieve data from this distributed network, you need a torrent file. This file contains information about what the file is and what tracker you have to query to find the information. The torrent works relatively fine, but mostly for public (popular) data. At some stage, someone, somewhere needs to be willing to give up storage space and bandwidth so others can retrieve the information. It's a good sharing model, not so much a good storage model.

By combining the blockchain with p2p network storage you can create incentives to store data and information more cheaply without any kind of central point of failure: as well having upping securityby not having a single entity be able to look through your data (for those worrying about the scale of mass surveillance). The blockchain is used in novel ways here to do this. First, when you look at the blockchain itself, you realise it is actually just a database itself. It is however optimised to not really store everything, but rather only pointers. There are projects however that aim to store all information into the blockchain. Examples are Datacoin and Filecoin. Instead of getting a receipt telling you to fetch your package at the post-office, the package is actually put inside the post-office box. So yes, it wouldn't be like a normal post-office box, it would simply have much more space. It can grow and shrink as required. This does mean though that storing and retrieving a large package costs equivalently more to do. Projects such as Storj does this in a different manner.

It provides decentralized storage by using the blockchain to help verify that others are storing your data (public or private) for you.

## Verifying Information

Rough list of topics to cover: Personal tokens (music coins). Assets exchange. Counterparty. DNSChain. Namecoin. Oracles. Genecoin. PoX. Airlock. Factom. Genecoin. Reality Keys, Codius, Cryptograffiti. Art registry (Monegraph).
