# Decentralized Trade

Trade without intermediaries works pretty well in small communities, because inherent trust exists. Take a small seaside town (the wonderfully quaint Infanta on the southern coast of South Africa). There's only 90 residents that live there. Each year our family used to go there for the holidays, and we got to know most of the people in the community. Due to some various issues, the family house was sold, but we still go each year, because it is such a great place. Because it is so small, houses are often rented to friends and family, and not really "outsiders". You won't really find the great spots to rent online. If you know the people, finding information in this market is not difficult. Once a place is found and agreed upon, transacting is also easy. There's no requirement for escrow or any such service. There's no fees. It might occur even with cash, and not even with bank accounts (less so these days with cash though). Payments are flexible as well: "Pay me sometime in January!", or even in some circumstances, a day's worth of rent is traded for 3 pieces of prime fish from the river. Exchange and trade is a lot more flexible if the market is small.

The larger the market becomes, the less inherent trust exists and thus it is usually shifted towards institutions that help with trade. It's a limit to our capacity to map strong relationships: mirroring anthropologist Robin Dunbar's famous number. Luckily, we've been able to create services and tools that allow us to function on greater levels of coordination. The larger the available market for trade becomes, the more noisy or impure terms affect trade. So services like EBay facilitate trade. They not only provide a platform to make sure information (buyers vs sellers) come together, but they also provide a very important additional part: they provide trust. In a small market, people are usually 1 (max 2 degrees) separated. With EBay, it achieves the same trust hop, because both participants that come through EBay seeing it as their 1 degree of separation. "Do you trust EBay? I do. Do you? Yes, I also trust EBay. Let's trade."

For their services: 1) minimizing market lag, 2) escrow and 3) trust, they charge a fee. For most participants they are usually happy with this, but on all 3 fronts, there's granularity that exists from the buyer and seller's side that is not met. What if a seller already has a buyer lined up, but in order to reap future benefits from the EBay, they are basically "forced" to sell through EBay in order to build up a reputation? What if the users don't want to use PayPal, and rather want to use Dogecoin? They enjoy the market making that EBay and enjoy the trust it brings, but they don't to use their payment options. What now? What if trust was established without using EBay as the trust hop (trust from Twitter & Facebook), but people still want to use the market making of EBay?

With newer services such as AirBNB, the trust component gets shifted towards the current established social networking sites such as Twitter and Facebook. It forms the basis of the rising "sharing economy". We can now trust others more, because having and maintaining a Facebook account is a proof of time investment. AirBNB as a brand still has a small trust factor, but more importantly they are market makers for home rentals, and facilitate trade and disputes.

At the end of the day if you are in the process of providing a platform for trade, you basically have to answer the following questions:

How well do I put buyers and sellers together?  
How do I make sure the participants trust each other? (Helping to build reputation, or borrowing reputation)  
How do I facilitate exchange? (Do I provide escrow? Dispute resolution?)  

In providing the above services, how do I make it sustainable (from a business perspective)? Most often it involves deciding on where to charge a fee. This fee is usually charged at a point where it is not possible to have an alternative (paying with a credit card on AirBNB, for example). In a way, it is forced channel whereby a business can take a cut: it's out of neccessity (sp?) from a systemic perspective. A core feature of decentralized systems is that although it costs more to run (for example, it often requires some redundancy that's not required as much in centralized systems), the cost per individual is low: "Many hands make light work". To be apart (sp?) of a system, you agree to expend small costs (such as helping to relay transactions), but the sum remains better than the whole. So in terms of trade, these questions become possible as well: is there a way to put buyers and sellers together where the burden is placed on not one service, but many? Is there a way to make people trust each other without requiring 1, 2 or 3 services to mediate it, but rather a verifiable "independent", distributed alternative? And how do you do things like dispute resolution and escrow without requiring some institution to hold the money? Can it also be distributed? For the most part, yes. And I'll explain the different facets of this that makes it possible to have completely global, (basically) free (in the philosophical and financial sense) trade.

## Silk Road

In February 2011, the "Silk Road" was launched. It was an online black market, only accessible through the Tor (anonymizing) network (the so called "deep web") that specialised in the sales of drugs. What set it apart is that it brought reputation to the black market and it used Bitcoin to facilitate trade. Using Bitcoin's pseudonomous features (and a built-in mixing service provided by the Silk Road), users could more easily not leave a trace (compared to credit cards). It also meant as a seller you could bootstrap easily into this economy but not requiring any banking infrastructure. Additionally, when users bought and sold drugs, like with EBay, users could leave reviews. If the buyer and seller did not trust each other, they could use an escrow service provided by the Silk Road.

What it proved was: there is a market for sane buying and selling of drugs, and Bitcoin was a great way to facilitate these exchanges as it provided more financial privacy than other transacting means. It's been debated that for much of 2011 and 2012 when Bitcoin's price lowered again to $2 levels, that this is what "propped" it up (difficult to claim, but sounds plausible). When the Silk Road was raided in August 2013 ((check date)), Bitcoin's price fell sharply, only to regain its previous position a few days later. As with all "hydra" of this nature: if you destroy a market or service that people want and use that is centralized (see: Napster), users will invent alternatives that become more and more censorship resistant (see: torrents). Over time several other black markets have also come online, using a lot of similar models pioneered by the Silk Road, and there remains a thriving online drug market trade.

What this inevitably led to was the creation of the DarkMarket ((check proper history on this)) by Amir Taaki (a famous anarchist in the Bitcoin ecosystem): a prototype for a distributed, censorship-resistant, online trading platform. Having built the initial prototype for a demo day, a new team forked it and created OpenBazaar.

## OpenBazaar

OpenBazaar is platform that entered into beta at the end of 2014. Users download software that allows to build their own store that forms part of p2p networks of online stores. Your store (or "node"), helps to store the items contained in the network, and relays information to other nodes. To facilitate trade it uses Bitcoin and multi-sig architecture for notaries and arbiters, and it uses a web-of-trust alongside a novel way (proof of burn) to create reputation throughout the network.

So let's start from the top: How does OpenBazaar facilitate exchange?

Instead of there being one company that acts as dispute mediator, there's a market for them. It divides responsibilities into two roles: a notary and an arbiter. When users enter into a trade, they enter into a 2-of-3 multi-sig Bitcoin transaction. To reiterate, this means that 2 out of 3 people need to agree in order for the money to be unlocked. The 3 participants are the buyer, seller and a notary. If both participants are happy with the trade, both simply sign and the money is rightfully unlocked, requiring no 3rd party. The fees are simply the ones paid with a normal Bitcoin transaction. In the event of a dispute, both participants agree on an arbiter. As explained in chapter 1, there is a market for arbiters. Participants choose an arbiter whom they both agree would be able to understand the transaction and pass down the correct judgement. When an arbiter has reviewed the case and decided who is right, it tells the notary, whose sole job is to only sign a transaction to unlock the money to either participant. A notary or an arbiter can decide to charge a fee for their services. In most cases however, neither will be needed.

As explained in chapter 1, there are alternatives such as the "bilateral forfeit" scheme. This is the scenario where there is no requirement for an arbiter or notary. When 2 participants come together to trade, they put in a security deposit so that if they do not come to a conclusion both will lose money more than what their trade was worth in the 1st place. Both alternatives already exist (BitMarkets ((?)) use bilateral forfeit). Both require additional effort when transacting, and it remains to be seen which one will win out. I'm slightly partial to OpenBazaar's model for various reasons, but the biggest one is that if you want truly free and global trade with such a platform, there might be scenarios where a person won't even have money to cover a security deposit.

How does OpenBazaar allow users to more easily trust each other?

The next part is around reputation. Currently, users build a new reputation as a seller (or buyer) on a platform (EBay), or borrow reputation from other sources such as Facebook or Twitter (AirBNB). These often sit in silos, and the platforms use it as a barrier to keep participants on their platform. It won't really be in EBay's interest if users can borrow their reputation but use other payment mechanisms, since that means EBay provides and receives nothing in return. However, in real life, we know that reputations are fluid (and together forms the basis of your "identity"). You have a reputation for being a good car salesman, but you have a bad reputation as a sportsman, and so forth. When interacting with people these overlapping reputations sometimes help ("Oh, you were a farmer back in your day? Yes, then you understand my financial position and I would like your financial advice"), or sometimes don't overlap at all (being a farmer back in the day doesn't impact your reputation as a goods sportsman). However, almost all current models don't really make it possible for you to use reputation built online for other services. While Facebook serves as a trust mechanism, I can't use my Facebook-authenticated AirBNB profile to help with my reputation on Uber (for example).

So, when dealing with others, and knowing whom to trust, we use what's called a "web of trust" (WoT). This is what makes transacting easy in a small seaside town like Infanta. We are however limited by our capability to extend this web of trust ad infinitum: however, programs can. If we trust the program to map out a proper web, we can trust its information. ((research OB's web of trust more fully))

((continue WOT here))

Another way bootstrap reputation, is to use what is called a "proof of burn". What's usually important in being able to trust someone is that there must be proof thay they are vested in the good outcome of the exchange. Putting in provable effort and time into something is that proof. This means building a reputation from scratch or using something like Facebook (where if you misuse that reputation it can backfire and make you lose vested time and effort). Similary, some historians speculate that a handshake and a cheers at some point served similar goals. A handshake is a way to prove that you are not concealing any weapons (you are vested in the good outcome of the exchange), and a cheers, clinking mugs together, spills potentially poisoned alcohol into the others' mugs.

In Bitcoin's case, because the ledger is practically unforgeable, it can be proved that you destroyed (or burned) some Bitcoin. This means, you had some money, and you verifiably destroyed it, proving your vested interest in the outcome of a good exchange. If you want to destroy that reputation you will have to burn more money to create a new one. There are ways in which you can prove sacrifice. Another alternative is a verifiably proof of donation. If all the miners in the world, securing the blockchain, be seen as a global commons then provable sending money to be mined is another way to prove it. It was previously not feasible due to the possibility that a miner could simple mine their own donation, but with new OP_CODEs such as CHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY, it is possible to delay this donation far into the future such that no miner could reasonably predict who will be able to collect it.

So, in OpenBazaar, this combination is used where local trust (WoT) is combined with global trust (proof of burn) to create verifiable ways to ascertain trustworthiness. Local trust consists of who you trust as well as the proof that you have delivered services trustfully in the past. In a way your reptuation builds automatically from a "proof of service". The Bitcoin blockchain automatically acts as the audit trail.

## A protocol for trade: a decentralized sharing economy.

The final question: How does OpenBazaar brings buyers and sellers together? Unlike services such as AirBNB or EBay, OpenBazaar is primarily a protocol and this question lies with the implementers. The reasons why people would want to use OpenBazaar is because it 1) provides free trade (both in political and financial sense, 2) it allows users to more fluidly use their reputation across markets and finally 3) it's a protocol for trade.

The final part is perhaps the most exciting and usually is with all these decentralized systems. They become not only an alternative to current systems, but they also become programmable. If the web was permissionless innovation in terms of information, Bitcoin is permissionless innovation in financial systems, then OpenBazaar could become the permisionless innovation beacon for trade. At some point in the future, it will be more lucrative, easier and cheaper to simply piggyback of a distributed, global trade backbone. Want to launch and test an app over the weekend? Setting up merchant accounts, building systems to enact reputation, building your own market finding tools, etc is much more laborious than building a specialised interface to OpenBazaar. If you get traction, then you can build out value-add services and eventually add things like credit cards (if you were still so inclined).

Take Uber. It's entirely possible to build an app that interfaces to OpenBazaar and does exactly all of which Uber does: a decentralized Uber. You have reputations being built by drivers (or borrowed from their other economic activities). Fees will be much, much lower and a marketplace for rides will also exist (not centrally decided by Uber). It's a much more free-market alternative, and it remains to be seen whether it is at all better, but at least it is entirely possible. At the very least, a completely decentralized transport network is possible.

The last sentence also gives a hint of what could be possible once you start introducing self-driving cars. As much as something like OpenBazaar uses the blockchain to create programmable interfaces for humans, it is also equally malleable and usable by programs itself: paving the way for autonomous agents which I will detail in chapter 5.

## Trifecta of blockchains

The last 2 ways in which OpenBazaar uses blockchain technology is through the use of Namecoin and Bitmessage. As explained previously, Namecoin is a simple key/value store. It can be used for IP addresses, as well as other information. In the case of OpenBazaar, stores are uniquely identified through a unique ID (on the network). To get access to my store, you either have to get through searching product information ("honey"), or you need to know the ID. The final way to will form part of the OpenBazaar network is the use Namecoin to make sharing stores easier than having to remember a long unique ID (exactly the same problem that was faced with IP addresses in the early internet). Instead of reinventing ICANN for OpenBazaar, it simply relies on Namecoin. If an identifier in the "/id" namespace has a reference to an OpenBazaar store, the network resolves that and displays store information. So, in essence if I have an entry on Namecoin, stating that "/id/simons_store" has an entry with an OpenBazaar ID, it fetches that, checks on the OpenBazaar network that it is the same information, and then proceeds to open the store. I can thus tell other simply that to get my store they simply have to enter "simons_store" on the OpenBazaar network.

((Make sure how Bitmessage works))

## Decentralized Trade

In cash economies, trade is as free as you can get. People trade illegal, as well completely legal goods with it. Depending on your political viewpoint, it can be seen as a thorn in a government's side or it is a boon: a neccessary (sp?) requirement for any function economy. To restrict freedom of trade, is to restrict the flow of blood in a body. Cash (or equivalents) economies will always exist, even when it is traded for legal or illegal goods. On a global scale, we haven't seen what becomes possible if you allow cash-like trading: free, restriction-less trade. It will most definitely unlock larger access to drug markets (from people who want to stay off the streets and violence associated with, but want to enjoy individual liberty to do with their bodies what they want to). It will also attract consumers who are price conscious, who feel they want control of their online store and that they don't want to pay fees for intermediaries. While current platforms such as EBay will attract most of the eyes for time to come, if it is made negligible to also sell those services and goods on OpenBazaar for no cost, it will always remain an alternative and perhaps eventually usurp popular platforms through steady attrition. It is a distributed network and thus once it is released (which it has), to continue it being an alternative costs exactly zero.

To think of decentralized trade only in terms of unlocking the black markets is short-sighted. Yes, it will create drug trade, and perhaps even the sale of other nefarious goods and services. However, what's important with any new platform such as this, is to think not only in terms of what it replaces ("How many fax machines will the Internet replace?"), but what it enables. We might see people from all over the world creating livelihoods for themselves never thought possible before, and when you can start programming trade, it creates the opportunity for even greater and new economies to suddenly exist (such as programs using it for trade amongst themselves).
