# Introduction
  
"It's like a big spreadsheet". Susan Athey, Stanford Professor, describing Bitcoin in a TV insert on [aimed at kids](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KJVyATgtrE).

It's one of my favourite explanations of what Bitcoin is. It gives this idea that there is some "spreadsheet" floating about over the dynamic layer of the web, that no one specifically owns and maintains, where anyone can come to edit cells, and move units around based on pre-programmed rules. Since there aren't really strict rules to editing spreadsheets, I like to change this metaphor only slightly: "It's like a set of post-office boxes in the cloud." It's like a spreadsheet, in the sense that there are cells which can contain contents, except it is more immediately understandable that not anyone can edit any parts of it. You have, for example, access to send anything to any post-office box, but you can only open the cells you have a key for.  
  
The whole system together is a lot more complex. To delve a bit deeper into the dynamics of this system, it works as follows.  There is a programmable ledger that is secured voluntarily by a large group of computers across the world through the clever use of cryptography. When combining these parts, you get a secure, decentralized ledger. It's not always immediately obvious why this is so useful. People often invent new things for the sake of it, resulting in something that doesn't really have large-scale practical use. However, Nik Custodio, uses a very simple [metaphor to explain Bitcoin](https://medium.com/@nik5ter/explain-bitcoin-like-im-five-73b4257ac833), and why it is indeed such a big deal.  
  
He starts with an apple. If you and I sit somewhere, and I hand you an apple, we can clearly see that ownership has been transferred. The apple isn't in my control anymore. We didn't need some arbiter to help us. However, with "digital apples", where everything is simply 1's and 0's, it can be copied. So when I say I'm giving a "digital apple" to you, it's almost impossible (pre-Bitcoin) to verify that ownership has indeed been transferred. I could've made a thousand copies and sent it to a 1000 other people as well. To solve this, we can only resort on the trust of someone else to maintain artifical scarcity and make sure it is restricted to the appropriate actors involved. Bitcoin came along and shifted this responsibility to a whole network. To exchange digital ownership, a centralized database is no longer required: instead a decentralized ledger is used for consensus on who owns what. So, in short, if the digital apple is registered with this decentralized ledger technology (a blockchain), when I transfer it to you, I take out the post from a box in the "post-office box in the cloud" (with my key I own), and I insert it into your post-office box. We can thus verifiably exchange ownership with a lot less trust (and by definition: a lot less risk). The concept of trust in Bitcoin can sometimes be a bit counter-intuitive. A "trust-less" relationship might mean one where people do not trust each other, and thus it is seen as not a "good" relationship. However, when "trust-less" is mentioned, it means that trust is not required: not the absence of trust ("I know I can work with you because there's not even a need to trust each other."). 
  
So: Bitcoin is an implementation of a blockchain-based system that acts really well as an automated and trustless clearinghouse (thanks to Gav Wood from Ethereum for that explanation). Within the community a distinction is often made between bitcoin, the currency (small "b") and Bitcoin, the network (capital "B") (I'm using "Bitcoin" as both in this book, unless otherwise stated). More often than not, Bitcoin (large "B") gets dismissed, because the idea of a global, borderless currency doesn't quite yet fit into the current paradigms. Additionally, Bitcoin itself, is also called a cryptocurrency, which is just a different way of saying that the blockchain is being used in an attempt to be money. After 2 years of reading up on money, its historical forms and why it works they way it does, I still haven't made up my mind. People spend their whole lives working on defining money and researching it. It all seems to be a big game of coordination to decrease opporunity costs (social and transactional). So calling something a "currency" already changes people's perceptions about it. 

Bitcoin was launched in January 2009, by Satoshi Nakamoto: a pseudonymous programmer (his real identity has never been revealed). Since mid-2010 he has disappeared from the scene, and has not been seen since: except for an odd post claiming that he is not Dorian Nakamoto, which Newsweek in early 2014, claimed to be Satoshi (this was difficult to verify since his old e-mail has also been purportedly hacked). For all intents and purposes, Satoshi is not apart of the scene anymore (in original guise). Since the code is open-source and the protocol can run without any centralized involvement, his disappearance has not had an adverse effect. In fact, it could be argued that his anonymity and disappearance cemented the idea that Bitcoin (and blockchain) tech is all about there being no de-facto leader, or figurehead. The community took over completely: trying as best to keep decisions and protocol changes as distributed as possible.

Coming back to the concept of "money": Imagine that he launched 2 versions that day: One is called, Bitcoin, the cryptocurrency, and the other is called "cloudledger". My intuition guides me to think that "Bitcoin" will succeed in its adoption simply because it is labelled as money. It changes our perception of the tokens that are used. There's a lot of great research that has been done, and I recommend reading papers such as Nick Szabo's one on the use of [shells and collectibles](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/shell.html) as early forms of money. While I'm still trying to figure out the "currency" part of Bitcoin (in terms of sociology, economics and psychology), I'm instead going to focus on the technology behind it.  
  
We are still living through the rapid changes in information dynamics that the web brought along. The questions are still being asked: "What can I change if I have extreme low barrier to information creation and dissemination?" A lot of those have been answered in powerful ways: connecting billions of users through social networks and giving access to all human knowledge through Wikipedia. The first stage of the web was about looking at information the same way we did with all previous information channels: "How can this new medium be used for dissemination?" This meant receiving dynamic new information from the comfort of your home: for example, no longer requiring catalogs to be delivered. However, the web's greatest shift came when the reading of information became an equal citizen to the writing of information. This vision created social networks and Wikipedia.   
  
Similarly when you look at blockchain, we often look at it in ways in which it can replace our current record-keeping systems. It's a question of: "What ledgers can we replace?". However, what this question neglects similarly to what the perception of the web was: "What happens when writing of value becomes an equal citizen?" To send money around is now in the same predicament that information was before the web: You had to require permission from intermediaries to do it for you. The biggest paradigm shift comes when you start wondering what's possible if you can program ownership and trust? There are a lot more we can do with Bitcoin and the blockchain that isn't immediately obvious. In the next few chapters I will detail what is happening with blockchain technology and what could happen if we explore this new "adjacent possible". It starts with a focus on decentralized finance all the way down to decentralized virtual realites.  
