When I was doing research for my masters degree into information overload, one of my favourite papers was George Miller's article on the number 7: looking into the limits on our capacity to process information. It was written in 1956 and it starts as follows:

'My problem is that I have been persecuted by an integer. For seven years this number has followed me around, has intruded in my most private data, and has assaulted me from the pages of our most public journals. This number assumes a variety of disguises, being sometimes a little larger and sometimes a little smaller than usual, but never changing so much as to be unrecognizable. The persistence with which this number plagues me is far more than a random accident. There is, to quote a famous senator, a design behind it, some pattern governing its appearances. Either there really is something unusual about the number or else I am suffering from delusions of persecution.'

This paper still resonates with me for several reasons. It was the first important paper in this field of research that I read. It led me to believe that all subsequent academic papers would start with such candor: a genuine display of curiosity, passion and tenacity for pursuing something that interests the mind. These days, most academic papers strive to avoid such language (which makes sense to some degree), but in this process, it becomes more and more difficult to tell the story. One could argue that stories don't really have place in academics, since it reveals the potential for subjectivity. That being said, Miller's paper remains one of the important pieces of research to understanding our limits to processing information, even with such an interesting choice for introduction. This book, which delves into the use of blockchain technology, attempts to follow a similar style. It is not merely reflecting on a new reailty with a mirror, but painting a new one.

Steven Johnson, in his book, 'Where Good Ideas Come From' phrases the term 'adjacent possible' coined by Stuart Kauffman in a fantastic manner: 'The adjacent possible is a kind of shadow future, hovering on the edges of the present state of things, a map of all the ways in which the present can reinvent itself.' The term 'adjacent possible' refers to 'next room', that's only a door away: the next idea that connects to all our current ideas. In the book he explains how the difference engine was too far ahead of its time. There were no doors that led to this invention. It's like seeing a party happening in a building far away, but you can't quite figure out how to get there. No matter how exciting the innovation is, if it can't yet be employed to great use, you can't 'get to the party'. It remains a trivial novelty, since the apartment next to you is having this low-key dinner party. It is something you can actually attend rather than the 'party' far off in the distance. It is 'something', rather than 'nothing' (no matter how awesome that party in the distance looks like).

Sometimes, however, you move to a new place, and suddenly, a whole new plethora of social interactions arise: a cambrian explosion for life's little pleasures. The blockchain is such an example. It's like everyone has moved to the big city, and we are flush with anticipation, excitement and exploration. There are doors that have been opened that we need to step into; to explore. The 'adjacent possible' is all about opening those doors, peering in, and asking questions: a natural tendency to discover. If we were all happy with where we were, we wouldn't really explore just for the sake of it. In teen horror movies, there's always this one guy that decides against all rational thought to explore (to the chagrin and reluctant agreement from his peers). To convince and to excite (like this cocky teen hero), more often than not, only stating the facts, doesn't really help. A story is needed. As with Miller's introduction, you can't help but feel his excitement and passion. You learn to care about the number 7. So, the point of this book is to inspire, enlighten and have a conversation about the blockchain. I will sketch a future, and will attempt to enthuse. As one would when having a late-night discussion over red wine with good friends, if I'm talking nonsense, curl up your first and growl at this book, then come shout at me on Twitter! If you enjoy what I'm writing, I implore you to continue discovering this new 'adjacent possible': like our 'cocky hero', follow him into new dark rooms.

For 4 years (2 years full-time), as with Miller, I feel I too have been 'persecuted'. There are numbers involved, except it is not one specific number, but a myriad of them: the math, the design and implementation of the blockchain. It is the culmination of an extremely wide variety of disciplines (from economics, finance, tech, psychology, philosophy, to systems design) that attempts to completely redefine how we organise. Reid Hoffman (LinkedIn co-founder), describe it succinctly in an interview: 'It's a new trust paradigm'. It is by far one the most exciting experiments conducted by humanity. I've spent most of my waking time exploring as much of the technology and potential, and I want to share this. I won't go too deep into technicals (only what's necessary) in order to explain what could become possible. I will dedicate a small portion on what the blockchain is for those who are new to it, but for the most part I will assume some understanding. In fact, all you really need to know is: 'What becomes possible with a decentralized and programmable ledger?'

I hope you enjoy this as much as I did writing it!

